Previously, when I didn't have an Active Profile, the English bean and the Spanish bean they conflicted it
and Spring didn't know which bean to wire in.
Now there is a profile that is available and that's called the default profile
within the Spring Framework and this profile is considered active if no active profiles meant set.
So this is a way that we can use to say that the beans belongs to a default profile.
So if there are no active profiles set, the default profile beans that are annotated that way will be
wired into the context.
So what is this going to allow us to do this to run the application without a profile set and we'll
be able to take one of those beans set a default profile on it and allow Spring to bring that up. So
we can jump over to IntelliJ and show you how to utilize Spring Frameworks default profile so we can set
this up so we don't always have to specify an active profile for our application.
Let's go ahead and configure this to have a default profile.
So what I want to do is let's say we want to have the Spanish greeting service be the default if there's
no active profile set.
So what we can do is come up here and change this and what we want to do is just provide a list of values.
You can have more than one active profile for a bean.
So we're just going to modify this and then say default like so.
And if I come in here to the active profiles and I'm just going to comment that out like so.
So now that is no longer being set.
And if I run this I'm going to go ahead and just run the application again and we will see that the
Spanish version is being injected.
You can see right here at the top we have hello world in Spanish and if I come back here and have the
Spanish profile active we'll see that this still does in fact get picked up.
And you could see that that is their. Lets change it back to English to verify that. It's actually still
working.
And now it's there.
And if I come in comment this out, rather than the English bean getting wired up, we'll get the Spanish
greeting service
added in since there's no active profile.
So again we can see there it is in Spanish.
Just as a quick reminder, let me comment this out. Actually I'm just going to revert it real
quick. So if I only have that if I'm not doing this default, right now I have a profile of ES and a profile of
EN.
And this is where because we don't have a default and we are asking for that version of the bean, we
are gonna get that error.
So that's where we need to actually provide the default.
So if there is not a profile set we want this be picked up. So let me undo that change.
And we'll re add that default to the profile. You can see
now we will get that bean injected properly.
So that is how you use the default profile. You just specify that Spring component is part of the default
profile. When there is no active profile set, that bean will get picked up and used by the Spring
context.
Like I said at the beginning of this section, one of the core powers of the Spring Framework is Dependency
Injection.
So we've gone through and taken a look at a lot of the different options that we have for controlling
Dependency Injection.
So we have a number of implementations of our greeting service now and we are using features of Springs
Dependency Injection to control exactly which implementations we want injected in which controller classes.
You can see this is a very very powerful tool set and as you develop more utilizing Dependency Injection
you'll get into more and more realistic use cases. For example, very common use case for the Spring Framework
is to do some type of messaging.
It might be JMS messaging, it might be with IBM MQ series.
It might be was Kafka. Through dependency injection,
you can actually set things up utilizing the Spring Framework to where that messaging layers abstracted.
You might have JMS in one deployment of your application. You might have Kafka in a different
deployment of your application and now through Dependency Injection and these tools that have shown you
so far around Dependency Injection you have full control out of how the Spring inversion control container
goes about composing your application.
So this is very very powerful concept because your classes are going to have dependencies and the Spring
framework through Inversion Controller is going to be determining how to inject those classes so you can
see now through these different tool sets that we have in controlling how beans are injected and which
beans are injected. It gives you a lot of control over the runtime of your application as it goes through
different deployment environments.